====================================
Downloading and Installation
====================================

.. _numpy: https://numpy.org/
.. _github:  https://github.com/newville/asteval
.. _PyPI:  https://pypi.org/project/asteval/

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Asteval is a pure Python module.  For Python 3.8 and higher, there are no
required dependencies outside of the standard library.  If `numpy`_ and
`numpy_financial` are available, Asteval will make use of these libraries.  The
test suite requires the `pytest` and `coverage` modules, and building the
documentation requires `sphinx`.

The latest stable version of asteval is |release|.

Versions 0.9.30 and later support Python 3.8 through 3.11 and are and are
automatically tested with these on Windows, MacOS, and Linux, with and without
`numpy`_ installed.  Python versions have generally been supported by `asteval`
until they are well past the end of security fixes - there are no immediate
plans to drop support for Python 3.7, though we are no longer test with it.
Support for new versions of the Python 3 series is not guaranteed until some
time after the official release of that version, as we may not start testing
until late in the "beta" period of development.  Historically, the delay has
not been too long, though `asteval` may not support newly introduced language
features.

At this writing (Asteval 0.9.31, July, 2023), minimal testing has been done
with Python 3.12-beta4, without numpy installed.  All tests pass, which
suggests that there no changes needed to the way `asteval` works with the AST
generated by Python.

Download and Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The latest stable version of asteval is |release| and is available at
`PyPI`_ or as a conda package.  You should be able to install asteval
with::

   pip install asteval

It may also be available on some conda channels, including `conda-forge`,
but as it is a pure Python package with no dependencies or OS-specific
extensions, using `pip` should be the preferred method on all platforms and
environments.

Development Version
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The latest development version can be found at the `github`_ repository, and cloned with::

    git clone https://github.com/newville/asteval.git


Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Installation from source on any platform is::

   pip install .

License
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ASTEVAL code is distribution under the following license:

.. literalinclude:: ../LICENSE
